# 2.1 Notes

## Definition
- A **graph** is and ordered pair G = (V,E) consisting of a nonempty set V (vertices) and a set E (edges) of two-element subsets of V
    - with this definition a a graph could be written as ({a,b,c,d},{ {a,b},{b,c},{b,d,},{c,d} })
    - The vertices are a,b,c,and d and the pairings are the line connections <br>
a--b <br>
|    /| <br>
|/    | <br>
c--d

- **Isomorphic** are graphs that are basically the same but have different vertice names
    - $G_1$ = ({a,b,c},{ {a,b},{b,c} }) $G_2$ = ({a,b,c}, { {a,c},{c,b} })
        - $G_1$ -> a---b---c
        - $G_2$ -> a---c---b
    
    - An **isomorphism** between two graphs $G_1$ and $G_2$ is a bijection f : $V_1$ - $V_2$ between the vertices of the graphs such that {a,b} is an edge in $G_1$ if and only if {f(a), f(b)} is an edge in $G_2$
    - Two graphs are **isomorphic** if there is an isomorphism between them. In this case, we write $G_1$ $\cong$ $G_2$

- **Subgraphs** is a smaller part of a large graph BUT THERE ARE TWO MAIN WAYS OF DEFINING IT
    - **ordinary subgraph** results from deleting some vertices and edges
        - We say that $G^|$ = ($V^|$, $E^|$) is a **subgraph** of G = (V, E), and write $G^|$ $\subset$ G, provided $V^|$ $\subset$ V and $E^|$ $\subset$ E
    - **induced subgraph** results from deleting vertices and every edge attached to them
        - We say that $G^|$ = ($V^|$, $E^|$) is an **induced subgraph** of G = (V, E) provided $V^|$ $\subset$ V and every edge in E whose vertices are still in $V^|$ is also and edge in $E^|$

- **Handshake Lemma:** In any graph, the sum of the degrees of vertices in the graph is always twice the number of edges.

- **Proposition 2.1.11:** In any graph, the number of vertices with odd degree must be even.

- **adjacent:** two vertices that are connected byy an edge
- **bipartite graph:** A graph for which it is possible to divide the vertices into two disjoint sets such that there are no edges between any two vertices in the same set.
- **complete graph:** every vertice is adjacent
- **chromatic number:** The minimum number of colors required in a proper vertex coloring of the graph
- **cycle:** a path that goes through all vertices but doesnt overlap
    - **euler** started this
- **multigraph** can contain multiple edges between two vertices as well as single edge loops (that is an edge from a vertex to itself).
- **planar:** A graph which can be drawn (in the plane) without any edges crossing.
- **tree** a connected graph with no cycles
    - The vertices in a tree with degree 1 are called **leaves**.


## Named Graphs:
- **$K_n$** the complete graph on n vertices
- **$K_m,n$** The complete bipartite graph with sets of m and n vertices.
- **$C_n$** The cycle on n vertices, just one big loop.
- **$P_n$** The path on n+1 vertices (so n edges), just one long path.

