# 3.6 Notes
## Definitions
- **combinatorial proof:** A proof of the equality between two expressions that solve the same problem
    - find a counting problem you can answer in two ways to prove A answer = B answer
- **Binomial identity:** an identity involving binomial coefficitents

## Binomial Identities
### Algebraic proofs - 

$$  \binom{n}{k} = \frac{n!}{(n-k)!k!} $$

$$  \binom{n}{k} = \binom{n-1}{k-1} + \binom{n-1}{k} $$

### Explanatory proof

$$ binom{n}{0} = 1 and \binom{n}{n} = 1 $$

$ binom{n}{0} $ gives the number of ways to select 0 objects from a collection of n objects. There is only one way to do this, hence it =s 1 (you can't select anything).

$ binom{n}{n} $ gives the number of ways to select n ojects from a collection of n objects. There is only one option which is to select all objects since the value you need to select and the value available are the same.

---

$$  \binom{n}{k} = \binom{n-1}{k-1} + \binom{n-1}{k} $$

$ \binom{n}{k} $ is the number of bit strings of length n containing k 1s. First we can consider all the strings that start with a 1, after there must be n-1 more bits and k-1 more 1s possible. Thus we get $\binom{n-1}{k-1}$. You add $\binom{n-1}{k}$ to account for bits not starting with 1.

---

$$ \binom{n}{k} = \binom{n}{n-k} $$

$ \binom{n}{k} $ counts the number of ways to select k things from n choices. $ \binom{n}{n-k} $ counts the number of ways to select n-k things from n choices. $ \binom{n}{n-k} $ could include or exlcude the amount of ways to choose n-k things

---

$$ \binom{n}{0} + \binom{n}{1} + \binom{n}{2} + ... + \binom{n}{n} = 2^{n} $$

If you're trying to figure out how many things you can make with n options (like pizza) the total is simply $2^{n}$. Alternatively, you could break it up to pieces where you have a pizza with no toppings, $ \binom{n}{0} $ + pizzas with one topping $ \binom{n}{1} $ which will eventually add up to the original $2
^{n}$

---
